hydpy/docs/rst/example_projects.rst, before:


.. _`German Federal Institute of Hydrology (BfG)`: https://www.bafg.de/EN

.. _example_projects:

Example Projects
================

We provide several example projects.  You can download them to familiarize yourself
with HydPy's project structure, try out the tutorials, or freely experiment with more
advanced features.  Note that all example projects are also included in each HydPy
release.  We use them to explain and test HydPy in several documentation sections.


.. _HydPy-H-Lahn:

HydPy-H-Lahn
____________

`HydPy-H-Lahn` is a complete project data set for the German river Lahn, provided by
the `German Federal Institute of Hydrology (BfG)`_.  The Lahn is a medium-sized
tributary to the Rhine.  The given project configuration agrees with the BfG's
forecasting model, using HBV96 to simulate the inflow of the Rhine's tributaries.  The
catchment consists of four sub-catchments, each with a river gauge (Marburg, Asslar,
Leun, Kalkofen) at its outlet.  The sub-catchments consist of a different number of
zones.

Click :download:`here <HydPy-H-Lahn.zip>` to download `HydPy-H-Lahn`.

.. image:: HydPy-H-Lahn.png
   :width: 800

Commit message:

Add discharge measurement time series to the `HydPy-H-Lahn` example project.

hydpy/docs/rst/example_projects.rst, after:


.. _`German Federal Institute of Hydrology (BfG)`: https://www.bafg.de/EN

.. _example_projects:

Example Projects
================

We provide several example projects.  You can download them to familiarise yourself
with HydPy's project structure, try out the tutorials, or freely experiment with more
advanced features.  Note that all example projects are also included in each HydPy
release.  We use them to explain and test HydPy in several documentation sections.


.. _HydPy-H-Lahn:

HydPy-H-Lahn
____________

`HydPy-H-Lahn` is a complete project data set for the German river Lahn, provided by
the `German Federal Institute of Hydrology (BfG)`_.  The Lahn is a medium-sized
tributary to the Rhine. The catchment consists of four sub-catchments, each with a
river gauge (Marburg, Asslar, Leun, Kalkofen) at its outlet.  The sub-catchments
consist of a different number of zones.

The meteorological input data stems from the gridded precipitation data set HYRAS-DE
PRE v5.0 and the gridded_temperature dataset HYRAS-DE TAS v5.0 of the German Weather
Service (DWD), which was spatially averaged over HydPy-H-HBV96 subbasins by the German
Federal Insitute of Hydrology.  The Hessian Agency for Nature Conservation, Environment
and Geology (HLNUG) kindly provides the measurement data for the gauges Marburg and
Asslar, and the Federal Waterways and Shipping Administration (WSV) those of Kalkofen
and Leun.  All this time series data is licensed under
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike International 4.0 (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0).

Click :download:`here <HydPy-H-Lahn.zip>` to download `HydPy-H-Lahn`.

.. image:: HydPy-H-Lahn.png
   :width: 800
