
.. _Python Package Index: https://pypi.org/project/HydPy/
.. _Python 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, or 3.14: https://www.python.org/downloads/
.. _numpy: http://www.numpy.org/
.. _Kalypso: https://kalypso.bjoernsen.de/index.php?id=382&L=1
.. _Delft-FEWS: https://oss.deltares.nl/web/delft-fews
.. _releases: https://github.com/hydpy-dev/hydpy/releases
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=windows
.. _Anaconda: https://www.anaconda.com/what-is-anaconda/
.. _IDLE: https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html
.. _Spyder: https://www.spyder-ide.org/
.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/
.. _Virtual Environments: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
.. _Python Launcher: https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#launcher
.. _Windows Compilers page: https://wiki.python.org/moin/WindowsCompilers
.. _GNU Compiler Collection: https://gcc.gnu.org/


.. _installation:

Installation
============

HydPy is available on the `Python Package Index`_.  With `Python 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, or
3.14`_ on your computer and having access to the internet, you only have to type::

  pip install hydpy

into your command-line tool to install the latest version of HydPy on your computer.
`pip` then installs necessary site packages like `numpy`_ on the fly.

For 64-bit Windows, the `Python Package Index`_ provides so-called "wheels", which
include pre-compiled binaries and simplify installing a lot.  On Linux systems, you
have to install "from source" at the moment, as explained below.

Starting with version 4.0, HydPy also comes as an installer for Windows, including
Python itself and all required and optional dependencies.  You may find it useful if
you are new to Python and want to check out HydPy before installing a complete Python
distribution or if you are afraid to mess up your current Python installation (but then
you should probably prefer to work in a virtual environment).  Additionally, the
closedness of the installer might be preferable when coupling HydPy to other software
systems such as `Kalypso`_ or `Delft-FEWS`_.  See `releases`_ for the latest version of
the HydPy installer.


Selecting a Python distribution
--------------------------------

Using HydPy requires installing `Python 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, or 3.14`_ first.  You should
favour the latest Python version unless you plan to use other libraries only available
for earlier versions.  Alternatively, consider installing a more comprehensive Python
distribution like `Anaconda`_, already containing many scientific and mathematical
tools.

Note that these Python distributions do not include the most powerful integrated
development environments.  For simple tasks, the lightweight IDE `IDLE`_ of the
original Python distribution might be sufficient.  `Anaconda`_ also comes with
`Spyder`_, which helps structure medium-sized projects. On the other hand, external
IDEs like `PyCharm`_ offer significantly more comfort, so the initial installation and
configuration effort required should quickly pay for itself.


Selecting a HydPy distribution
------------------------------

If you want to contribute to the development of  HydPy or implement new models, please
see the :ref:`developer_guide` section.  If you want to apply HydPy only, you should
start with a stable version available under `releases`_.

You are probably interested in using the latest version of HydPy, which has the highest
version number.  HydPy's version numbers consist of three separate digits.  In
"X.Y.Z.", "X" is the major number.  There can be substantial differences between HydPy
versions with different major numbers, possibly resulting in incompatibility issues
with interfacing systems.  "Y" is the minor revision number, indicating some
improvements but no potentially problematic changes, e. g. the implementation of
additional models.  "Z" is the revision number, indicating some necessary corrections
to the framework or its implemented models.  You should make sure to select the highest
revision number available, meaning you should prefer using "X.Y.1" over "X.Y.0".

Each release is available in different compressed archives suitable for different
systems.  Currently, we distribute pre-compiled binaries for 64-bit Windows only (see
above).  You have to build binaries yourself for all other operating systems and Python
versions yourself.   Principally, this should be simple, but Windows users might need
to install the suitable compiler first (see below).  Download and uncompress the
`source code` archive in an arbitrary folder and open the command line interface within
the uncompressed `hydpy` folder. Then, write the following commands::

    python prepare_build.py
    python -m build
    python -m pip install hydpy --no-index --find-links dist

The first command auto-generates some additional source files.  The second command uses
the original and the autogenerated sources to build a compressed source distribution
and a wheel distribution in a folder named "dist".  The wheel distribution contains the
content of the source distribution plus pre-compiled binaries for your specific system
and `Python` version.  The third command installs the wheel into the currently active
site packages folder.  After that, you are ready to go.


Creating an Environment
-----------------------

Refraining from adding site packages like HydPy into the basic Python installation is
always advisable.  Otherwise, with time, the number of additional packages grows larger
and larger, and it will not take long until the first incompatibilities emerge.

To avoid such problems, the Python community developed many "environment mechanisms".
An `environment` is a kind of project- or purpose-specific Python subinstallation that
is, more or less, independent of other `environments`.

Integrated development environments (IDEs) provide convenient ways to manage multiple
environments connected to different projects.  But even without a capable IDE, the
basic steps are straightforward.  For example, each Python installation has tools for
creating and using `Virtual Environments`_.

With the `Python Launcher`_ installed, the following command creates a virtual
environment named `venv_hydpy_5` in your current working directory::

    py -m venv venv_hydpy_5

You can activate this virtual environment on Windows by executing the batch file
`activate.bat`::

    venv_hydpy_5\Scripts\activate

You can now execute the following command to let `pip`_  install the latest release of
HydPy 5 into the `venv_hydpy_5` environment::

    pip install "hydpy < 6"

After following these steps, you have an outdated HydPy version on your computer.  But
this does not need to bother you, because you can just as easily install, for example,
HydPy 6 in a separate environment without the risk of any conflicts::

    deactivate
    py -m venv venv_hydpy_6
    venv_hydpy6\Scripts\activate
    pip install "hydpy < 7"


Selecting a C Compiler
----------------------

You only need to care about selecting a C compiler if no pre-compiled binaries are
available for your system or if you want to implement new models into the HydPy
framework.  Also, Linux users should have no trouble, as the `GNU Compiler Collection`_
is ready for use on standard Linux distributions.  Unfortunately, Windows does not
include compilers by default.  Search the `Windows Compilers page`_  to learn how to
select and install the correct compiler.

After installing the required compiler on Windows, you might eventually have to deal
with the **unable to find vcvarsall.bat** problem.  `vcvarsall` is a batch file Python
needs to control the installed Visual Studio compiler.  Find this file on your system
and set a new system variable pointing to its path.  A quick search on the internet
should provide you with the required information.
