hydpy/docs/rst/modelcollection.rst, before:


.. _LARSIM: http://www.larsim.info/1/the-model/

.. _modelcollection:

Model Collection
================

In :ref:`HydPy`, many models are divided into groups (e.g. :ref:`HydPy-L`)
and subgroups (e.g. `HydPy-L-Land`).

The existence of the groups is primarily due to historical reasons.
For example, all subgroups related to the original `LARSIM`_ model are
part of group :ref:`HydPy-L`, despite their different functionality
(`HydPy-L-Land` for modelling "land processes", `HydPy-L-Stream` for
modelling "stream processes", and `HydPy-L-Lake` for modelling "lake
processes").

The separation into subgroups is of greater importance.  Each subgroup
consists of one base model (e.g. |lland|) and a number of application
models (e.g. |lland_v1|).  The base models offer basic features like
model parameter classes (e.g. |lland_control.KG|), sequence classes
(e.g. |lland_fluxes.NKor|) and process equation methods (e.g.
|lland_model.calc_nkor_v1|), but cannot perform an actual simulation run.
This is the task of the application models, which select different
parameters, sequences, and process equations in a meaningful combination
and order.

If not stated otherwise, all models can be freely combined and applied
on arbitrary simulation time steps.  It is, for example, possible to
simulate the "land processes" with |hland_v1|, the "stream processes"
with |arma_v1|, the "lake processes" with |llake_v1| in either a daily
or hourly time step.

Often base models offer different versions of a method to calculate the
value of the same variable.  For example, base model |hland| offers two
methods for calculating |lland_fluxes.ET0|: |lland_model.calc_et0_v1| and
|lland_model.calc_et0_v2|.  Each application model has to select a
specific version of the method.  For example, application model |hland_v1|
selects |lland_model.calc_et0_v1|...

>>> from hydpy.models.lland_v1 import *
>>> parameterstep('1d')
>>> hasattr(model, 'calc_et0_v1')
True

...but not |lland_model.calc_et0_v2|:

>>> hasattr(model, 'calc_et0_v2')
False

For simplicity, you can skip the version number when trying to access
a certain method of an application model:

>>> hasattr(model, 'calc_et0')
True

Note that this way to construct different application models is very
different from the usual design of hydrological models, where only
one model exists.  Here it is the responsibility of the user to combine
different possible methods in a meaningful combination, usually via
setting some options in configuration files.

In the light of experience that model users are often overstrained with
such decisions when using complex models and that it is often very hard to
communicate (and remember) all selected settings, we favour the more
reliable "application model" approach.  This allows the model developer to
carefully check the combination of methods he selected by himself
in thorough integration tests.  And it allows him to document how he
thinks the application model should actually be used.  On the downside,
eventually many application models must be compiled in order to support
different combinations of methods.  To keep this problem small, newly
implemented models should be kept small.  But this also depends on
other design decisions (e.g. how process equations are numerically solved)
and will have to be discussed later.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   HydPy-A
   HydPy-D
   HydPy-H
   HydPy-L
   HydPy-T

Commit message:

Add and correct a huge number of substitutions/links.
This commit completes commit 54325e7dc8fc7950eed4d6eb43fe250ace35eb83.

Introducing the substitutions revealed that some parts of the documentation were not up-to-date.  Primarily, `modelcollection.rst` and `development.rst` had to be updated.

For base models `dam` and `llake`, two doctests had to be adapted.  The automatic detection of relevant parameters and sequences does not work for the new substitution mechanism.

hydpy/docs/rst/modelcollection.rst, after:


.. _LARSIM: http://www.larsim.info/1/the-model/

.. _modelcollection:

Model Collection
================

In :ref:`HydPy`, many models are divided into groups (e.g. :ref:`HydPy-L`)
and subgroups (e.g. `HydPy-L-Land`).

The existence of the groups is primarily due to historical reasons.
For example, all subgroups related to the original `LARSIM`_ model are
part of group :ref:`HydPy-L`, despite their different functionality
(`HydPy-L-Land` for modelling "land processes", `HydPy-L-Stream` for
modelling "stream processes", and `HydPy-L-Lake` for modelling "lake
processes").

The separation into subgroups is of greater importance.  Each subgroup
consists of one base model (e.g. |lland|) and a number of application
models (e.g. |lland_v1|).  The base models offer basic features like
model parameter classes (e.g. |lland_control.KG|), sequence classes
(e.g. |lland_fluxes.NKor|) and process equation methods (e.g.
|lland_model.calc_nkor_v1|), but cannot perform an actual simulation run.
This is the task of the application models, which select different
parameters, sequences, and process equations in a meaningful combination
and order.

If not stated otherwise, all models can be freely combined and applied
on arbitrary simulation time steps.  It is, for example, possible to
simulate the "land processes" with |hland_v1|, the "stream processes"
with |arma_v1|, the "dam processes" with |dam_v001| in either a daily
or hourly time step.

Often base models offer different versions of a method to calculate the
value of the same variable.  For example, base model |dam| offers two
methods for picking its |dam_fluxes.Inflow|: |dam_model.pic_inflow_v1|
and |dam_model.pic_inflow_v2|.  Each application model has to select a
specific version of the method.  Exemples here are application model
|dam_v001| selecting |dam_model.pic_inflow_v1| and application model
|dam_v005| selecting |dam_model.pic_inflow_v2|.  The following example
shows this for application model |dam_v005|:

>>> from hydpy.models.dam_v005 import *
>>> parameterstep('1d')
>>> hasattr(model, 'pic_inflow_v2')
True
>>> hasattr(model, 'pic_inflow_v1')
False

For simplicity, you can skip the version number when trying to access
a certain method of an application model:

>>> hasattr(model, 'pic_inflow')
True

Note that this way to construct different application models is very
different from the usual design of hydrological models, where only
one model exists.  Here it is the responsibility of the user to combine
different possible methods in a meaningful combination, usually via
setting some options in configuration files.

In the light of experience that model users are often overstrained with
such decisions when using complex models and that it is often very hard to
communicate (and remember) all selected settings, we favour the more
reliable "application model" approach.  This allows the model developer to
carefully check the combination of methods he selected by himself
in thorough integration tests.  And it allows him to document how he
thinks the application model should actually be used.  On the downside,
eventually many application models must be compiled in order to support
different combinations of methods.  To keep this problem small, newly
implemented models should be kept small.  But this also depends on
other design decisions (e.g. how process equations are numerically solved)
and will have to be discussed later.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   HydPy-A
   HydPy-D
   HydPy-H
   HydPy-L
   HydPy-T
