hydpy/docs/rst/quickstart.rst, before:


.. _doctest: https://docs.python.org/library/doctest.html
.. _Python Interpreter: https://docs.python.org/tutorial/interpreter.html
.. _Python Launcher: https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#launcher
.. _IDLE: https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html
.. _IPython: https://ipython.org/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm

.. role:: raw-html(raw)
   :format: html


.. _quickstart:

Quick Start
===========

This documentation includes countless `doctest`_  examples, which you can easily repeat
via copy-paste to gain insights into all the details of HydPy.  At first, it may be
overwhelming, so you need to get adjusted and find the relevant starting points that
match your skills and aims.  If you want to take advantage of HydPy's full flexibility
by using it as a Python library and are already familiar with Python, go to the
:ref:`Simulation > Python <simulation_python>` subsection.  Without Python experience,
you should review the following paragraphs beforehand.  If you are, in contrast,
primarily interested in executing standard workflows, for example, in the context of
flood forecasting, you might prefer starting with the :ref:`Simulation > Console
<simulation_console>` subsection.


Starting Python
_______________

The best first experience comes with using HydPy interactively.  Therefore, one first
must start a Python shell.  The most basic choice is the `Python Interpreter`_.  With a
default installation on Windows, you can type `py` into a console like the command
prompt (cmd), which tells the `Python Launcher`_ to search for the interpreter of the
currently preferable Python version installed on your computer (usually, the most
recent one) and start it::

  C:\>py
  Python 3.12.0
  Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
  >>>

To start learning Python (and HydPy), a good choice is Python's Integrated Development
and Learning Environment `IDLE`_, which also comes with regular Python distributions.
Open its shell via the Windows menu or by writing::

  py -m idlelib

.. image:: IDLE-shell.png
   :width: 700

The two mentioned options require a regular Python installation on your computer. The
following command also works with HydPy installed independently from a regular Python
distribution via its Windows installer::

  hyd.py start_shell
  >>>

You may want to save modified or freshly created examples in Python scripts.  For a
start, `IDLE`_ does not only provide the (initially opened) shell window but can also
open multiple editor windows (click on File :raw-html:`&rarr;` New File):

.. image:: IDLE-editor.png
   :width: 700

When seriously starting to work with Python, consider using more capable shells like
`IPython`_ or complex Integrated Development Environments like `Pycharm`_.


Using Python
____________

Understanding the functioning of HydPy requires only basic Python knowledge, to which
this subsection offers a brief introduction.

In the shell, the `>>>` symbol tells you that Python is expecting your first action.
First, do some math and see if you get the correct result:

>>> 1 + 2
3

Assignments work with `=`:

>>> x = 4
>>> x
4

Checks for equality and identity rely on `==` and `is`:

>>> y = 4.0
>>> x == y
True
>>> x is y
False

`!=` and `is not` are their counterparts:

>>> x != y
False
>>> x is not y
True

Many functions like |print| accept both positional and keyword arguments:

>>> print(1, "<", 2)  # three positional arguments
1 < 2

>>> print(1, "<", 2, end=" is True")  # three positional and one keyword argument
1 < 2 is True

Python uses colons and indentations instead of brackets to define control flow
structures, such as if-else clauses:

>>> if 1 < 2:
...     print("yes")
... else:
...     print("no")
yes

The most common way of defining loops is using `for ... in ...` expressions:

>>> for i in [1, 3, 2]:
...     (2 * i) ** 2
4
36
16

Write `import ...` to import another library completely or `import ... from ...` to
load one or more of its members:

>>> import hydpy
>>> from hydpy import HydPy, pub

`.` serves for member access:

>>> hydpy.pub is pub
True

In `assert ...`, `assert` checks if `...` is true:

>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == 60  # right, so nothing happens
>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == -60  # wrong, hence an AssertionError
Traceback (most recent call last):
...
AssertionError

The `with` statement usually starts something and undoes it after finishing the
following indented block:

>>> with pub.options.utcoffset(-60):
...     assert pub.options.utcoffset == -60
>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == 60

In Python, everything is an object, and every object allows you to inspect it to find
out about its features:

>>> obj = "test"
>>> assert type(obj) is str  # What type has `obj`?
>>> dir(obj)[-4:]  # What are it's members?
['title', 'translate', 'upper', 'zfill']
>>> obj.upper()  # What does its method `upper` do?
'TEST'


Run HydPy
_________

After this first dive into Python's syntax, we introduce you to HydPy.  For an easy
start, please download and unzip the :ref:`HydPy-H-Lahn` example project into a
working directory of your choice.

Now open, for example, the `IDLE` shell as explained above and activate the selected
directory.  Let us, therefore, first define the working directory's path as a string.
We take "C:/temp" as an example, but you can specify any other directory (on Windows,
you could also write r"C:\\temp" for "C:\\\\temp"):

>>> workingdir = "C:/temp"

.. testsetup::

    >>> from hydpy.core.testtools import prepare_full_example_1
    >>> prepare_full_example_1()
    >>> import os
    >>> cwd = os.getcwd()
    >>> from hydpy.tests import iotesting
    >>> workingdir = iotesting.__path__[0]
    >>> os.chdir(workingdir)

Now, import Python's |os| module and use its `chdir` function to activate the
preferred working directory:

>>> import os
>>> os.chdir(workingdir)

The now-activated directory should contain a subdirectory named `HydPy-H-Lahn`
containing, for example, the sub-subdirectory `network`.  The following code line
checks this:

>>> assert os.path.exists(os.path.join(workingdir, "HydPy-H-Lahn", "network"))

After these preparatory steps, we finally get started with HydPy.  HydPy is a so-called
"site package", and, in Python, site package names are by convention lowercase:

>>> import hydpy

The entry point to each project is the central |HydPy| class.  Initialise it by passing
the project's name to it:

>>> hp = hydpy.HydPy("HydPy-H-Lahn")

Equally prominent throughout this documentation is the |pub| module, which allows for
the specification of general information.  Here, we use it to define the first date,
the last date, and the time step size of the considered simulation period in the
simplest possible manner:

>>> hydpy.pub.timegrids = "1996-01-01", "1996-01-05", "1d"

Now, there are numerous ways to proceed.  We choose the most straightforward one
(without deviating from a single default) and call method  |HydPy.prepare_everything|
of class |HydPy|, which "prepares everything" so far as to leave the |HydPy| instance
in a simulation-ready state:

>>> hp.prepare_everything()

The catchment outlet of the :ref:`HydPy-H-Lahn` example project is named `lahn_kalk`.
The following example demonstrates how to query the discharge values simulated for this
outlet:

>>> from hydpy import print_vector
>>> print_vector(hp.nodes.lahn_kalk.sequences.sim.series)
nan, nan, nan, nan

|numpy.nan| means "not a number", indicating missing values.  In this example, the
|numpy.nan| values tell us we have not performed a simulation run.  We catch up on this
by calling method |HydPy.simulate|:

>>> hp.simulate()

Now, we can inspect the freshly calculated discharge values:

>>> print_vector(hp.nodes.lahn_kalk.sequences.sim.series)
54.018074, 37.255732, 31.863983, 28.358949

You could now write the results to file, print them into a figure, evaluate them
statistically, or - if you don't like them - change some configurations and calculate
different results.

As you can see, a few lines of code are often enough to let HydPy execute complex tasks
in a standard manner.  However, HydPy offers fine-grained control, allowing you to
define specific workflows to solve individual problems.  Take your time to understand
these first examples fully and then follow the more detailed explanations in the
:ref:`Simulation > Python <simulation_python>` and :ref:`Simulation > Console
<simulation_console>` sections.

.. testsetup::

    >>> os.chdir(cwd)

Commit message:

Use the discharge measurement time series of the `HydPy-H-Lahn` example project to round up the documentation's Quick Start section.

hydpy/docs/rst/quickstart.rst, after:


.. _doctest: https://docs.python.org/library/doctest.html
.. _Python Interpreter: https://docs.python.org/tutorial/interpreter.html
.. _Python Launcher: https://docs.python.org/3/using/windows.html#launcher
.. _IDLE: https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html
.. _IPython: https://ipython.org/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm

.. role:: raw-html(raw)
   :format: html


.. _quickstart:

Quick Start
===========

This documentation includes countless `doctest`_  examples, which you can easily repeat
via copy-paste to gain insights into all the details of HydPy.  At first, it may be
overwhelming, so you need to get adjusted and find the relevant starting points that
match your skills and aims.  If you want to take advantage of HydPy's full flexibility
by using it as a Python library and are already familiar with Python, go to the
:ref:`Simulation > Python <simulation_python>` subsection.  Without Python experience,
you should review the following paragraphs beforehand.  If you are, in contrast,
primarily interested in executing standard workflows, for example, in the context of
flood forecasting, you might prefer starting with the :ref:`Simulation > Console
<simulation_console>` subsection.


Starting Python
_______________

The best first experience comes with using HydPy interactively.  Therefore, one first
must start a Python shell.  The most basic choice is the `Python Interpreter`_.  With a
default installation on Windows, you can type `py` into a console like the command
prompt (cmd), which tells the `Python Launcher`_ to search for the interpreter of the
currently preferable Python version installed on your computer (usually, the most
recent one) and start it::

  C:\>py
  Python 3.12.0
  Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
  >>>

To start learning Python (and HydPy), a good choice is Python's Integrated Development
and Learning Environment `IDLE`_, which also comes with regular Python distributions.
Open its shell via the Windows menu or by writing::

  py -m idlelib

.. image:: IDLE-shell.png
   :width: 700

The two mentioned options require a regular Python installation on your computer. The
following command also works with HydPy installed independently from a regular Python
distribution via its Windows installer::

  hyd.py start_shell
  >>>

You may want to save modified or freshly created examples in Python scripts.  For a
start, `IDLE`_ does not only provide the (initially opened) shell window but can also
open multiple editor windows (click on File :raw-html:`&rarr;` New File):

.. image:: IDLE-editor.png
   :width: 700

When seriously starting to work with Python, consider using more capable shells like
`IPython`_ or complex Integrated Development Environments like `Pycharm`_.


Using Python
____________

Understanding the functioning of HydPy requires only basic Python knowledge, to which
this subsection offers a brief introduction.

In the shell, the `>>>` symbol tells you that Python is expecting your first action.
First, do some math and see if you get the correct result:

>>> 1 + 2
3

Assignments work with `=`:

>>> x = 4
>>> x
4

Checks for equality and identity rely on `==` and `is`:

>>> y = 4.0
>>> x == y
True
>>> x is y
False

`!=` and `is not` are their counterparts:

>>> x != y
False
>>> x is not y
True

Many functions like |print| accept both positional and keyword arguments:

>>> print(1, "<", 2)  # three positional arguments
1 < 2

>>> print(1, "<", 2, end=" is True")  # three positional and one keyword argument
1 < 2 is True

Python uses colons and indentations instead of brackets to define control flow
structures, such as if-else clauses:

>>> if 1 < 2:
...     print("yes")
... else:
...     print("no")
yes

The most common way of defining loops is using `for ... in ...` expressions:

>>> for i in [1, 3, 2]:
...     (2 * i) ** 2
4
36
16

Write `import ...` to import another library completely or `import ... from ...` to
load one or more of its members:

>>> import hydpy
>>> from hydpy import HydPy, pub

`.` serves for member access:

>>> hydpy.pub is pub
True

In `assert ...`, `assert` checks if `...` is true:

>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == 60  # right, so nothing happens
>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == -60  # wrong, hence an AssertionError
Traceback (most recent call last):
...
AssertionError

The `with` statement usually starts something and undoes it after finishing the
following indented block:

>>> with pub.options.utcoffset(-60):
...     assert pub.options.utcoffset == -60
>>> assert pub.options.utcoffset == 60

In Python, everything is an object, and every object allows you to inspect it to find
out about its features:

>>> obj = "test"
>>> assert type(obj) is str  # What type has `obj`?
>>> dir(obj)[-4:]  # What are it's members?
['title', 'translate', 'upper', 'zfill']
>>> obj.upper()  # What does its method `upper` do?
'TEST'


Run HydPy
_________

After this first dive into Python's syntax, we introduce you to HydPy.  For an easy
start, please download and unzip the :ref:`HydPy-H-Lahn` example project into a
working directory of your choice.

Now open, for example, the `IDLE` shell as explained above and activate the selected
directory.  Let us, therefore, first define the working directory's path as a string.
We take "C:/temp" as an example, but you can specify any other directory (on Windows,
you could also write r"C:\\temp" for "C:\\\\temp"):

>>> workingdir = "C:/temp"

.. testsetup::

    >>> from hydpy.core.testtools import prepare_full_example_1
    >>> prepare_full_example_1()
    >>> import os
    >>> cwd = os.getcwd()
    >>> from hydpy.tests import iotesting
    >>> workingdir = iotesting.__path__[0]
    >>> os.chdir(workingdir)

Now, import Python's |os| module and use its `chdir` function to activate the
preferred working directory:

>>> import os
>>> os.chdir(workingdir)

The now-activated directory should contain a subdirectory named `HydPy-H-Lahn`
containing, for example, the sub-subdirectory `network`.  The following code line
checks this:

>>> assert os.path.exists(os.path.join(workingdir, "HydPy-H-Lahn", "network"))

After these preparatory steps, we finally get started with HydPy.  HydPy is a so-called
"site package", and, in Python, site package names are by convention lowercase:

>>> import hydpy

The entry point to each project is the central |HydPy| class.  Initialise it by passing
the project's name to it:

>>> hp = hydpy.HydPy("HydPy-H-Lahn")

Equally prominent throughout this documentation is the |pub| module, which allows for
the specification of general information.  Here, we use it to define the first date,
the last date, and the time step size of the considered simulation period in the
simplest possible manner:

>>> hydpy.pub.timegrids = "1996-01-01", "1997-01-01", "1d"

Now, there are numerous ways to proceed.  We choose the most straightforward one
(without deviating from a single default) and call method  |HydPy.prepare_everything|
of class |HydPy|, which "prepares everything" so far as to leave the |HydPy| instance
in a simulation-ready state:

>>> hp.prepare_everything()

The catchment outlet of the :ref:`HydPy-H-Lahn` example project is named `lahn_kalk`.
The following example demonstrates how to query the discharge values simulated for this
outlet:

>>> from hydpy import print_vector
>>> print_vector(hp.nodes.lahn_kalk.sequences.sim.series[:6])
nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan

|numpy.nan| means "not a number", indicating missing values.  In this example, the
|numpy.nan| values tell us we have not performed a simulation run.  We catch up on this
by calling method |HydPy.simulate|:

>>> hp.simulate()

Now, we can inspect the freshly calculated discharge values:

>>> print_vector(hp.nodes.lahn_kalk.sequences.sim.series[:6])
54.018074, 37.255732, 31.863983, 28.358949, 26.19142, 25.047584

You could now write the results to file, print them into a figure, evaluate them
statistically, or change some configurations and repeat the simulation if you don't
like them.  As a last example, we compare the  complete simulated discharge time series
with the available measurements of gauge Kalkofen by plotting them:

>>> figure = hp.nodes.lahn_kalk.plot_allseries()

.. testsetup::

    >>> from hydpy.core.testtools import save_autofig
    >>> save_autofig("Kalkofen_Qsim_vs_Qobs.png", figure)

.. image:: Kalkofen_Qsim_vs_Qobs.png

.. tip::

    If the desired time series plot does not appear automatically (which depends on
    your configuration of the |matplotlib| library), type the following commands:

    >>> from matplotlib import pyplot  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> pyplot.show()  # doctest: +SKIP

As you can see, a few lines of code are often enough to let HydPy execute complex tasks
in a standard manner.  However, HydPy offers fine-grained control, allowing you to
define specific workflows to solve individual problems.  Take your time to understand
these first examples fully and then follow the more detailed explanations in the
:ref:`Simulation > Python <simulation_python>` and :ref:`Simulation > Console
<simulation_console>` sections.

.. testsetup::

    >>> os.chdir(cwd)
