hydpy/docs/rst/tests_and_documentation.rst, before:


.. _Hutton et al.: https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2016WR019285
.. _docstrings: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257
.. _reStructuredText: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/
.. _doctests: https://docs.python.org/library/doctest.html
.. _unittest: https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html
.. _test_everything.py: https://github.com/hydpy-dev/hydpy/blob/master/hydpy/tests/test_everything.py
.. _tests: https://github.com/hydpy-dev/hydpy/tree/master/hydpy/tests
.. _coverage library: https://coverage.readthedocs.io
.. _Travis CI: https://travis-ci.com/
.. _Travis log-page: https://travis-ci.org/hydpy-dev/hydpy

.. _tests_and_documentation:

Tests & documentation
_____________________

The scientific community broadly discusses the capabilities and
shortcomings of hydrological models from a theoretical point of view.
Many sensitivity studies address the negative impacts of low data
quality.  By contrast, we are not aware of any studies estimating
the adverse effects of bugs and misleading documentation of hydrological
computer models.  With little attention paid to these issues during
evaluation processes (e.g. during peer-review), there is a risk of
publishing impaired model results, possibly ecompromising the drawn
conclusions.  See for example the commentary of `Hutton et al.`_,
addressing this topic from the scientific perspective.

This section describes strategies on how to keep the danger of severe
bugs and outdated documentation to a reasonable degree.  We try to keep
the code and the documentation in sync by connecting them as strong as
possible, using the "docstring" and "doctest" features of Python.

The first "connection" is writing each documentation section as close
as possible next to the related source code.  For very general topics,
like the one you are reading now, it does not make sense, but write
all explanations addressing specific *HydPy* features as
`docstrings`_.  Docstrings are documentation strings which are
attached to the Python objects they explain.  We have not met this
goal yet, but we strive to attach at least a short docstring to
each module and all its public members (including the sub-members, e.g.
the public methods of a class.).  It is a strict requirement that
each newly implemented public (sub)member comes with its own docstring
right away.

The second "connection" is to use and extend the functionalities of
`Sphinx`_, which collects the source code, the docstrings, and the
regular documentation files to generate the online documentation.
`Sphinx`_ relies on the `reStructuredText`_ format, hence follow
this format when writing docstrings and regular documentation files.
However, instead of using its regular referencing style, make use of
"substitutions" as defined by class |Substituter| of module |autodoctools|.
WWrite for example the class name “Substituter” within vertical bars to
reference the corresponding class properly. This short syntax allows
making frequent use of substitutions. A helpful side effect is that,
during the generation of the HTML pages, wrong substitutions result in
warnings, interpreted as errors by our `Travis CI`_ based continuous
integration workflow (see section :ref:`continuous_integration`).  This
mechanism  increases chances that, when documentation adjustments do
not accompany future code changes, the `Travis CI`_ based workflow breaks,
enforcing the responsible programmer to adapt the documentation.  The
described substitution mechanism requires applying either function
|autodoc_module|, |autodoc_basemodel|, or |autodoc_applicationmodel| at
the end of each new module, which is mandatory.

The third "connection" is to define a sufficient number of `doctests`_.
Doctests are documentation sections containing valid Python code followed
by the expected results.  For developers, |doctest| is not always as
convenient as other unit testing frameworks (e.g. |unittest|), but it
offers the great advantage to define tests that are understandable for
non-programmers as well.  In *HydPy*, at best each (sub)member should
define its own doctests, telling in conjunction with some "normal"
explanations about its purpose and usage. Non-programmers should be
enabled to learn using *HydPy* by repeating the doctests.  Besides their
intuitiveness, doctests (like substitutions) offer the big advantage of
keeping source code and documentation in sync.  As long as the following
three-line doctest remains in the documentation, one can be sure that
the current core package contains a module named "objecttools":

    >>> from hydpy.core import objecttools
    >>> objecttools.classname(objecttools)
    'module'

The Python script `test_everything.py`_ collects the doctests of all
modules and executes them.  Additionally, it executes the "conventional"
unit tests defined in subpackage `tests`_.  For us, maintaining two
testing frameworks in parallel has proven to be distracting rather than
helpful, which is why we are going to replace all "conventional" by
doctests successively.  Hence, do not add further "conventional" unit
test when developing new *HydPy* features.

We measure the "code coverage" (the number of executed code lines divided
by the total number of code lines), determined by the `coverage library`_.
The code coverage of *HydPy* is 100 %.  To make sure future changes do
not undo this favourable situation, `Travis CI`_ reports all future changes
introducing uncovered lines as failures.

Commit message:

Shortly explain the usage of pylint in `programming_style.rst` and `tests_and_documentation.rst`.

hydpy/docs/rst/tests_and_documentation.rst, after:


.. _Hutton et al.: https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2016WR019285
.. _docstrings: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257
.. _reStructuredText: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/
.. _doctests: https://docs.python.org/library/doctest.html
.. _unittest: https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html
.. _test_everything.py: https://github.com/hydpy-dev/hydpy/blob/master/hydpy/tests/test_everything.py
.. _tests: https://github.com/hydpy-dev/hydpy/tree/master/hydpy/tests
.. _coverage library: https://coverage.readthedocs.io
.. _Travis CI: https://travis-ci.com/
.. _Travis log-page: https://travis-ci.org/hydpy-dev/hydpy
.. _Pylint: https://www.pylint.org/

.. _tests_and_documentation:

Tests & documentation
_____________________

The scientific community broadly discusses the capabilities and
shortcomings of hydrological models from a theoretical point of view.
Many sensitivity studies address the negative impacts of low data
quality.  By contrast, we are not aware of any studies estimating
the adverse effects of bugs and misleading documentation of hydrological
computer models.  With little attention paid to these issues during
evaluation processes (e.g. during peer-review), there is a risk of
publishing impaired model results, possibly compromising the drawn
conclusions.  See, for example, the commentary of `Hutton et al.`_,
addressing this topic from the scientific perspective.

This section describes strategies on how to keep the danger of severe
bugs and outdated documentation to a reasonable degree.  We try to keep
the code and the documentation in sync by connecting them as strong as
possible, using the "docstring" and "doctest" features of Python.

The first "connection" is writing each documentation section as close
as possible next to the related source code.  For very general topics,
like the one you are reading now, it does not make sense, but you have
to write all explanations addressing specific *HydPy* features as
`docstrings`_.  Docstrings are documentation strings which are
attached to the Python objects they explain.  When extending *HydPy*,
it is a strict requirement that each newly implemented public member
(including the sub-members, e.g. the public methods of a class) comes
with its own docstring.  Our `Travis CI`_ based continuous integration
workflow recognises any missing docstrings by using `Pylint`_ and
reports them as errors.

The second "connection" is to use and extend the functionalities of
`Sphinx`_, which collects the source code, the docstrings, and the
usual documentation files to generate the online documentation.
`Sphinx`_ relies on the `reStructuredText`_ format, hence follow
this format when writing docstrings and regular documentation files.
However, instead of using its regular referencing style, make use of
"substitutions" as defined by class |Substituter| of module |autodoctools|.
Write, for example, the class name “Substituter” within vertical bars to
reference the corresponding class properly. This short syntax allows
making frequent use of substitutions. A helpful side effect is that,
during the generation of the HTML pages, wrong substitutions result in
warnings, interpreted as errors by our `Travis CI`_ based continuous
integration workflow (see section :ref:`continuous_integration`).  This
mechanism  increases chances that, when documentation adjustments do
not accompany future code changes, the `Travis CI`_ based workflow breaks,
enforcing the responsible programmer to adapt the documentation.

The third "connection" is to define a sufficient number of `doctests`_.
Doctests are documentation sections containing valid Python code followed
by the expected results.  For developers, |doctest| is not always as
convenient as other unit testing frameworks (e.g. |unittest|), but it
offers the great advantage to define tests that are understandable for
non-programmers as well.  In *HydPy*, at best each (sub)member should
define its own doctests, telling in conjunction with some "normal"
explanations about its purpose and usage. Non-programmers should be
enabled to learn using *HydPy* by repeating the doctests.  Besides their
intuitiveness, doctests (like substitutions) offer the significant advantage
of keeping source code and documentation in sync.  As long as the following
three-line doctest remains in the documentation, one can be sure that
the current core package contains a module named "objecttools":

    >>> from hydpy.core import objecttools
    >>> objecttools.classname(objecttools)
    'module'

The Python script `test_everything.py`_ collects the doctests of all
modules and executes them.  Additionally, it executes the "conventional"
unit tests defined in subpackage `tests`_.  For us, maintaining two
testing frameworks in parallel has proven to be distracting rather than
helpful, which is why we are going to replace all "conventional" by
doctests successively.  Hence, do not add further "conventional" unit
test when developing new *HydPy* features.

We measure the "code coverage" (the number of executed code lines divided
by the total number of code lines), determined by the `coverage library`_.
The code coverage of *HydPy* is 100 %.  To make sure future changes do
not undo this favourable situation, `Travis CI`_ reports all future changes
introducing uncovered lines as failures.
